skills/vllm-deploy-docker/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: vllm-deploy-docker
description: Deploy vLLM using Docker (pre-built images or build-from-source) with NVIDIA GPU or Ascend NPU support and run the OpenAI-compatible server.
---

# vLLM Docker Deployment


A Claude skill describing how to deploy vLLM with Docker using the official pre-built images or building the image from source. Supports **NVIDIA GPUs (CUDA)** and **Huawei Ascend NPUs** via the [vllm-ascend](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm-ascend) plugin. Instructions include example `docker run` and a minimal `docker-compose` snippet, recommended flags, and troubleshooting notes. For AMD, Intel, or other accelerators, please refer to the [vLLM documentation](https://docs.vllm.ai/) for alternative deployment methods.

## What this skill does

- Deploy vLLM with docker using pre-built images (recommended for most users) or build from source for custom configurations
- Support both **NVIDIA CUDA** and **Ascend NPU** backends with auto-detection for image selection
- Provide example commands for running the OpenAI-compatible server with GPU/NPU access and mounted Hugging Face cache
- Point to build-from-source instructions when a custom image or optional dependencies are needed
- Explain common flags: `--ipc=host`, shared cache mounts, and `HF_TOKEN` handling

## Prerequisites

- Docker Engine installed (Docker 20.10+ recommended)
- **NVIDIA**: GPU(s) with appropriate drivers and CUDA toolkit; **Ascend**: NPU(s) with appropriate drivers installed
- Optional: `curl` for API tests
- A Hugging Face token if pulling private models or to avoid rate-limits: `HF_TOKEN`

## NVIDIA

### Quickstart using Pre-built Image (recommended)

Run a vLLM OpenAI-compatible server with GPU access, mounting the HF cache and forwarding port 8000:

```bash
docker run --rm --gpus all \
  -v ~/.cache/huggingface:/root/.cache/huggingface \
  --env "HF_TOKEN=$HF_TOKEN" \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  --ipc=host \
  vllm/vllm-openai:latest \
  --model Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct
```

- `--gpus all` exposes all GPUs to the container. Adjust if you need specific GPUs.
- `--ipc=host` or an appropriately large `--shm-size` is recommended so PyTorch and vLLM can share host shared memory.
- Mounting `~/.cache/huggingface` avoids re-downloading models inside the container.

> **Note:** vLLM and this skill recommend using the latest Docker image (`vllm/vllm-openai:latest`). For legacy version images, you may refer to the [Docker Hub image tags](https://hub.docker.com/r/vllm/vllm-openai/tags).

### Build Docker image from source

You can build and run vLLM from source by using the provided [docker/Dockerfile](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/main/docker/Dockerfile). 
First, check the hardware of the host machine and ensure you have the necessary dependencies installed (e.g., NVIDIA drivers, CUDA toolkit, Docker with BuildKit support). For ARM64/aarch64 builds, refer to the "Building for ARM64/aarch64" section.

#### Basic build command

```bash
DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker build . \
  --target vllm-openai \
  --tag vllm/vllm-openai \
  --file docker/Dockerfile
```

The `--target vllm-openai` specifies that you are building the OpenAI-compatible server image. The `DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1` environment variable enables BuildKit, which provides better caching and faster builds.

#### Build arguments and options

- **`--build-arg max_jobs=<N>`** — sets the number of parallel compilation jobs for building CUDA kernels. Useful for speeding up builds on multi-core systems.
- **`--build-arg nvcc_threads=<N>`** — controls CUDA compiler threads. Recommended to use a smaller value than `max_jobs` to avoid excessive memory usage.
- **`--build-arg torch_cuda_arch_list=""`** — if set to empty string, vLLM will detect and build only for the current GPU's compute capability. By default, vLLM builds for all GPU types for wider distribution.

#### Using precompiled wheels to speed up builds

If you have not changed any C++ or CUDA kernel code, you can use precompiled wheels to significantly reduce Docker build time:

- **Enable precompiled wheels:** Add `--build-arg VLLM_USE_PRECOMPILED="1"` to your build command.
- **How it works:** By default, vLLM automatically finds the correct precompiled wheels from the [Nightly Builds](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/contributing/ci/nightly_builds/) by using the merge-base commit with the upstream `main` branch.
- **Specify a commit:** To use wheels from a specific commit, add `--build-arg VLLM_PRECOMPILED_WHEEL_COMMIT=<commit_hash>`.

**Example with precompiled wheels and options for fast compilation:**
```bash
DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker build . \
  --target vllm-openai \
  --tag vllm/vllm-openai \
  --file docker/Dockerfile \
  --build-arg max_jobs=8 \
  --build-arg nvcc_threads=2 \
  --build-arg VLLM_USE_PRECOMPILED="1"
```

#### Building with optional dependencies (optional)

vLLM does not include optional dependencies (e.g., audio processing) in the pre-built image to avoid licensing issues. If you need optional dependencies, create a custom Dockerfile that extends the base image:

**Example: adding audio optional dependencies**
```dockerfile
# NOTE: MAKE SURE the version of vLLM matches the base image!
FROM vllm/vllm-openai:0.11.0

# Install audio optional dependencies
RUN uv pip install --system vllm[audio]==0.11.0
```

**Example: using development version of transformers:**
```dockerfile
FROM vllm/vllm-openai:latest

# Install development version of Transformers from source
RUN uv pip install --system git+https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.git
```

Build this custom Dockerfile with:
```bash
docker build -t my-vllm-custom:latest -f Dockerfile .
```

Then use it like any other vLLM image:
```bash
docker run --rm --gpus all \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  --ipc=host \
  my-vllm-custom:latest \
  --model Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct
```

#### Building for ARM64/aarch64

A Docker container can be built for ARM64 systems (e.g., NVIDIA Grace-Hopper and Grace-Blackwell). Use the flag `--platform "linux/arm64"`:

```bash
DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker build . \
  --target vllm-openai \
  --tag vllm/vllm-openai \
  --file docker/Dockerfile \
  --platform "linux/arm64"
```

**Note:** Multiple modules must be compiled, so this process can take longer. Use build arguments like `--build-arg max_jobs=8 --build-arg nvcc_threads=2` to speed up the process (ensure `max_jobs` is substantially larger than `nvcc_threads`). Monitor memory usage, as parallel jobs can require significant RAM.

**For cross-compilation** (building ARM64 on an x86_64 host), register QEMU user-static handlers first:
```bash
docker run --rm --privileged multiarch/qemu-user-static --reset -p yes
```

Then use the `--platform "linux/arm64"` flag in your build command.

#### Running your custom-built image

After building, run your image just like the pre-built image:

```bash
docker run --rm --runtime nvidia --gpus all \
  -v ~/.cache/huggingface:/root/.cache/huggingface \
  --env "HF_TOKEN=$HF_TOKEN" \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  --ipc=host \
  vllm/vllm-openai \
  --model Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct
```

Replace `vllm/vllm-openai` with the tag you specified during the build (e.g., `my-vllm-custom:latest`).
> **Note:** `--runtime nvidia` is deprecated for most environments. Prefer `--gpus ...` with NVIDIA Container Toolkit. Use `--runtime nvidia` only for legacy Docker configurations.

## Ascend NPU

vLLM on Ascend uses the [vllm-ascend](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm-ascend) plugin. Pre-built images are available at [quay.io/ascend/vllm-ascend](https://quay.io/repository/ascend/vllm-ascend).

### Auto-detect image tag

Select the correct image based on hardware (A2 vs A3) and OS (Ubuntu vs openEuler):

```bash
# Hardware: dmidecode Product Name (A2, A3, or 310p)
PRODUCT=$(dmidecode -t system 2>/dev/null | grep -i "Product Name" | head -1)
if echo "$PRODUCT" | grep -qiE "\bA3\b"; then
  HW_SUFFIX="-a3"
elif echo "$PRODUCT" | grep -qiE "310|300I"; then
  HW_SUFFIX="-310p"
else
  HW_SUFFIX=""   # A2 (default)
fi

# OS: openEuler uses -openeuler suffix
source /etc/os-release 2>/dev/null
[ "$(echo "${ID:-}" | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]')" = "openeuler" ] && OS_SUFFIX="-openeuler" || OS_SUFFIX=""

IMAGE="quay.io/ascend/vllm-ascend:v0.14.0rc1${HW_SUFFIX}${OS_SUFFIX}"
echo "Using image: $IMAGE"
```

| Hardware | OS | Image tag |
|----------|-----|-----------|
| Atlas A2 | Ubuntu | `v0.14.0rc1` |
| Atlas A2 | openEuler | `v0.14.0rc1-openeuler` |
| Atlas A3 | Ubuntu | `v0.14.0rc1-a3` |
| Atlas A3 | openEuler | `v0.14.0rc1-a3-openeuler` |
| Atlas 300I | Ubuntu | `v0.14.0rc1-310p` |
| Atlas 300I | openEuler | `v0.14.0rc1-310p-openeuler` |

### Run Ascend container and start server

The vllm-ascend image drops into an interactive bash. Run the container, then start the server inside:

```bash
# Set IMAGE (use auto-detect above or pick manually, e.g. for A2 + openEuler):
export IMAGE=quay.io/ascend/vllm-ascend:v0.14.0rc1-openeuler

# Build --device args for all NPU devices (A2: davinci0-7, A3: davinci0-15)
DEVS=""
for d in /dev/davinci[0-9]*; do [ -e "$d" ] && DEVS="$DEVS --device $d"; done
# Or use specific devices: DEVS="--device /dev/davinci0 --device /dev/davinci1"

docker run --rm \
  --name vllm-ascend \
  --shm-size=1g \
  $DEVS \
  --device /dev/davinci_manager \
  --device /dev/devmm_svm \
  --device /dev/hisi_hdc \
  -v /usr/local/dcmi:/usr/local/dcmi \
  -v /usr/local/bin/npu-smi:/usr/local/bin/npu-smi \
  -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/lib64:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/lib64 \
  -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/version.info:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/version.info \
  -v /etc/ascend_install.info:/etc/ascend_install.info \
  -v ~/.cache/huggingface:/root/.cache/huggingface \
  -v ~/.cache/modelscope:/root/.cache/modelscope \
  -e HF_TOKEN=$HF_TOKEN \
  -e VLLM_USE_MODELSCOPE=true \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  -it $IMAGE bash
```

**Inside the container**, start the vLLM server:

```bash
# Optional: use ModelScope for faster model download in China
export VLLM_USE_MODELSCOPE=true

# Start vLLM OpenAI-compatible server (background)
vllm serve Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct --port 8000 &
```

For **multi-node** deployment, add `--net=host` and mount `hccn_tool`:

```bash
-v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/tools/hccn_tool:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/tools/hccn_tool
```

### Build Ascend image from source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm-ascend.git
cd vllm-ascend
docker build -t vllm-ascend:dev -f Dockerfile .
# For A3: use Dockerfile.a3; for openEuler: use Dockerfile.openEuler or Dockerfile.a3.openEuler
```

### Ascend API test

From the host (or inside container):

```bash
curl -s http://localhost:8000/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"model":"Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct","messages":[{"role":"user","content":"Who are you?"}],"max_tokens":128}'
```

## Common server flags

- `--model <MODEL_ID>` — model to load (HF ID or local path)
- `--port <PORT>` — server port (default 8000 for OpenAI-compatible server)
- `--log-level` — adjust verbosity
- You may pass additional `engine_args` after the image tag; see vLLM docs for tuning options.

## Testing the API

After the container starts, make a quick test request against the OpenAI-compatible endpoint:

```bash
curl -s http://localhost:8000/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"model":"Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct","messages":[{"role":"user","content":"Who are you?"}],"max_tokens":128}'
```

## Security and operational notes

- Keep `HF_TOKEN` secret; prefer passing it via environment variables or a secret manager.
- For production, run behind a reverse proxy (Nginx) with TLS and authentication.
- Mount only necessary host paths into the container.

## Troubleshooting

**NVIDIA:**
- Container can't access GPUs: ensure `nvidia-container-toolkit` is installed and restart Docker.

**Ascend:**
- Container can't access NPUs: ensure Ascend driver and CANN are installed on host; run `npu-smi info` to verify.
- Wrong image: use `dmidecode -t system | grep Product` and `/etc/os-release` to pick the correct image tag (A2/A3, Ubuntu/openEuler).
- `libatb.so not found`: ensure NNAL is installed; use the official pre-built vllm-ascend image which includes it.
- Model download slow: set `VLLM_USE_MODELSCOPE=true` and install `modelscope` for China mirror.

**Common:**
- Model download failures: check `HF_TOKEN` and network; mount cache directory to persist downloads.
- Memory / OOM errors: try a smaller model or add more GPU memory; check `--shm-size`.
- If the container fails with NCCL library path issues (rare): set `VLLM_NCCL_SO_PATH` per upstream guidance.
- Permission issues of current user with Docker: ensure your user is in the `docker` group or suggest user to add current user to `docker` group manually following:
```bash
# 1. Create docker group if it doesn't exist (may already exist on some systems)
sudo groupadd docker

# 2. Add current user to the docker group (replace $USER with your username if needed)
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER

# 3. Apply the new group membership (you may need to log out and log back in for this to take effect)
newgrp docker

# 4. Verify that the user is in the docker group (output should include docker)
groups $USER
```
- Docker pull failed due to a network timeout connecting to Docker Hub: check the network connection and try again. If the issue persists, suggest and show the user how to use a mirror for Docker Hub.
- Error during downloading models from Hugging Face: check if the `HF_TOKEN` is passed to the container and is valid. Check if `HTTP_PROXY` and `HTTPS_PROXY` are passed to the container if the host is behind a proxy. Also, verify that the model ID is correct and that the model is public or accessible with the provided token.

## References

- vLLM repository (docker/Dockerfile): https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/tree/main/docker
- NVIDIA Container Toolkit: https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/install-guide.html
- Up-to-date deployment instructions and troubleshooting: https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/deployment/docker/
- vllm-ascend plugin: https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm-ascend
- vllm-ascend Docker images: https://quay.io/repository/ascend/vllm-ascend
- vllm-ascend installation & quickstart: https://docs.vllm.ai/projects/ascend/en/latest/quick_start.html

Commit message:

fix(ascend): add --privileged, remove host OS detection
- Add --privileged to docker run (required on Ascend with multiple containers)
- Remove host OS detection; use Ubuntu images for container compatibility
- Add troubleshooting note for --privileged

Signed-off-by: realliujiaxu <realliujiaxu@163.com>

skills/vllm-deploy-docker/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: vllm-deploy-docker
description: Deploy vLLM using Docker (pre-built images or build-from-source) with NVIDIA GPU or Ascend NPU support and run the OpenAI-compatible server.
---

# vLLM Docker Deployment


A Claude skill describing how to deploy vLLM with Docker using the official pre-built images or building the image from source. Supports **NVIDIA GPUs (CUDA)** and **Huawei Ascend NPUs** via the [vllm-ascend](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm-ascend) plugin. Instructions include example `docker run` and a minimal `docker-compose` snippet, recommended flags, and troubleshooting notes. For AMD, Intel, or other accelerators, please refer to the [vLLM documentation](https://docs.vllm.ai/) for alternative deployment methods.

## What this skill does

- Deploy vLLM with docker using pre-built images (recommended for most users) or build from source for custom configurations
- Support both **NVIDIA CUDA** and **Ascend NPU** backends with auto-detection for image selection
- Provide example commands for running the OpenAI-compatible server with GPU/NPU access and mounted Hugging Face cache
- Point to build-from-source instructions when a custom image or optional dependencies are needed
- Explain common flags: `--ipc=host`, shared cache mounts, and `HF_TOKEN` handling

## Prerequisites

- Docker Engine installed (Docker 20.10+ recommended)
- **NVIDIA**: GPU(s) with appropriate drivers and CUDA toolkit; **Ascend**: NPU(s) with appropriate drivers installed
- Optional: `curl` for API tests
- A Hugging Face token if pulling private models or to avoid rate-limits: `HF_TOKEN`

## NVIDIA

### Quickstart using Pre-built Image (recommended)

Run a vLLM OpenAI-compatible server with GPU access, mounting the HF cache and forwarding port 8000:

```bash
docker run --rm --gpus all \
  -v ~/.cache/huggingface:/root/.cache/huggingface \
  --env "HF_TOKEN=$HF_TOKEN" \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  --ipc=host \
  vllm/vllm-openai:latest \
  --model Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct
```

- `--gpus all` exposes all GPUs to the container. Adjust if you need specific GPUs.
- `--ipc=host` or an appropriately large `--shm-size` is recommended so PyTorch and vLLM can share host shared memory.
- Mounting `~/.cache/huggingface` avoids re-downloading models inside the container.

> **Note:** vLLM and this skill recommend using the latest Docker image (`vllm/vllm-openai:latest`). For legacy version images, you may refer to the [Docker Hub image tags](https://hub.docker.com/r/vllm/vllm-openai/tags).

### Build Docker image from source

You can build and run vLLM from source by using the provided [docker/Dockerfile](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/main/docker/Dockerfile). 
First, check the hardware of the host machine and ensure you have the necessary dependencies installed (e.g., NVIDIA drivers, CUDA toolkit, Docker with BuildKit support). For ARM64/aarch64 builds, refer to the "Building for ARM64/aarch64" section.

#### Basic build command

```bash
DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker build . \
  --target vllm-openai \
  --tag vllm/vllm-openai \
  --file docker/Dockerfile
```

The `--target vllm-openai` specifies that you are building the OpenAI-compatible server image. The `DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1` environment variable enables BuildKit, which provides better caching and faster builds.

#### Build arguments and options

- **`--build-arg max_jobs=<N>`** — sets the number of parallel compilation jobs for building CUDA kernels. Useful for speeding up builds on multi-core systems.
- **`--build-arg nvcc_threads=<N>`** — controls CUDA compiler threads. Recommended to use a smaller value than `max_jobs` to avoid excessive memory usage.
- **`--build-arg torch_cuda_arch_list=""`** — if set to empty string, vLLM will detect and build only for the current GPU's compute capability. By default, vLLM builds for all GPU types for wider distribution.

#### Using precompiled wheels to speed up builds

If you have not changed any C++ or CUDA kernel code, you can use precompiled wheels to significantly reduce Docker build time:

- **Enable precompiled wheels:** Add `--build-arg VLLM_USE_PRECOMPILED="1"` to your build command.
- **How it works:** By default, vLLM automatically finds the correct precompiled wheels from the [Nightly Builds](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/contributing/ci/nightly_builds/) by using the merge-base commit with the upstream `main` branch.
- **Specify a commit:** To use wheels from a specific commit, add `--build-arg VLLM_PRECOMPILED_WHEEL_COMMIT=<commit_hash>`.

**Example with precompiled wheels and options for fast compilation:**
```bash
DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker build . \
  --target vllm-openai \
  --tag vllm/vllm-openai \
  --file docker/Dockerfile \
  --build-arg max_jobs=8 \
  --build-arg nvcc_threads=2 \
  --build-arg VLLM_USE_PRECOMPILED="1"
```

#### Building with optional dependencies (optional)

vLLM does not include optional dependencies (e.g., audio processing) in the pre-built image to avoid licensing issues. If you need optional dependencies, create a custom Dockerfile that extends the base image:

**Example: adding audio optional dependencies**
```dockerfile
# NOTE: MAKE SURE the version of vLLM matches the base image!
FROM vllm/vllm-openai:0.11.0

# Install audio optional dependencies
RUN uv pip install --system vllm[audio]==0.11.0
```

**Example: using development version of transformers:**
```dockerfile
FROM vllm/vllm-openai:latest

# Install development version of Transformers from source
RUN uv pip install --system git+https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.git
```

Build this custom Dockerfile with:
```bash
docker build -t my-vllm-custom:latest -f Dockerfile .
```

Then use it like any other vLLM image:
```bash
docker run --rm --gpus all \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  --ipc=host \
  my-vllm-custom:latest \
  --model Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct
```

#### Building for ARM64/aarch64

A Docker container can be built for ARM64 systems (e.g., NVIDIA Grace-Hopper and Grace-Blackwell). Use the flag `--platform "linux/arm64"`:

```bash
DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker build . \
  --target vllm-openai \
  --tag vllm/vllm-openai \
  --file docker/Dockerfile \
  --platform "linux/arm64"
```

**Note:** Multiple modules must be compiled, so this process can take longer. Use build arguments like `--build-arg max_jobs=8 --build-arg nvcc_threads=2` to speed up the process (ensure `max_jobs` is substantially larger than `nvcc_threads`). Monitor memory usage, as parallel jobs can require significant RAM.

**For cross-compilation** (building ARM64 on an x86_64 host), register QEMU user-static handlers first:
```bash
docker run --rm --privileged multiarch/qemu-user-static --reset -p yes
```

Then use the `--platform "linux/arm64"` flag in your build command.

#### Running your custom-built image

After building, run your image just like the pre-built image:

```bash
docker run --rm --runtime nvidia --gpus all \
  -v ~/.cache/huggingface:/root/.cache/huggingface \
  --env "HF_TOKEN=$HF_TOKEN" \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  --ipc=host \
  vllm/vllm-openai \
  --model Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct
```

Replace `vllm/vllm-openai` with the tag you specified during the build (e.g., `my-vllm-custom:latest`).
> **Note:** `--runtime nvidia` is deprecated for most environments. Prefer `--gpus ...` with NVIDIA Container Toolkit. Use `--runtime nvidia` only for legacy Docker configurations.

## Ascend NPU

vLLM on Ascend uses the [vllm-ascend](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm-ascend) plugin. Pre-built images are available at [quay.io/ascend/vllm-ascend](https://quay.io/repository/ascend/vllm-ascend).

### Auto-detect image tag

Select the correct image based on hardware (A2 vs A3). The image tag refers to the **container base OS**; use Ubuntu images (no `-openeuler` suffix) for compatibility across hosts:

```bash
# Hardware: dmidecode Product Name (A2, A3, or 310p)
PRODUCT=$(dmidecode -t system 2>/dev/null | grep -i "Product Name" | head -1)
if echo "$PRODUCT" | grep -qiE "\bA3\b"; then
  HW_SUFFIX="-a3"
elif echo "$PRODUCT" | grep -qiE "310|300I"; then
  HW_SUFFIX="-310p"
else
  HW_SUFFIX=""   # A2 (default)
fi

IMAGE="quay.io/ascend/vllm-ascend:v0.14.0rc1${HW_SUFFIX}"
echo "Using image: $IMAGE"
```

| Hardware | Image tag |
|----------|-----------|
| Atlas A2 | `v0.14.0rc1` |
| Atlas A3 | `v0.14.0rc1-a3` |
| Atlas 300I | `v0.14.0rc1-310p` |

### Run Ascend container and start server

The vllm-ascend image drops into an interactive bash. Run the container, then start the server inside:

```bash
# Set IMAGE (use auto-detect above or pick manually, e.g. for A2):
export IMAGE=quay.io/ascend/vllm-ascend:v0.14.0rc1

# Build --device args for all NPU devices (A2: davinci0-7, A3: davinci0-15)
DEVS=""
for d in /dev/davinci[0-9]*; do [ -e "$d" ] && DEVS="$DEVS --device $d"; done
# Or use specific devices: DEVS="--device /dev/davinci0 --device /dev/davinci1"

docker run --rm --privileged \
  --name vllm-ascend \
  --shm-size=1g \
  $DEVS \
  --device /dev/davinci_manager \
  --device /dev/devmm_svm \
  --device /dev/hisi_hdc \
  -v /usr/local/dcmi:/usr/local/dcmi \
  -v /usr/local/bin/npu-smi:/usr/local/bin/npu-smi \
  -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/lib64:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/lib64 \
  -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/version.info:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/version.info \
  -v /etc/ascend_install.info:/etc/ascend_install.info \
  -v ~/.cache/huggingface:/root/.cache/huggingface \
  -v ~/.cache/modelscope:/root/.cache/modelscope \
  -e HF_TOKEN=$HF_TOKEN \
  -e VLLM_USE_MODELSCOPE=true \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  -it $IMAGE bash
```

**Inside the container**, start the vLLM server:

```bash
# Optional: use ModelScope for faster model download in China
export VLLM_USE_MODELSCOPE=true

# Start vLLM OpenAI-compatible server (background)
vllm serve Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct --port 8000 &
```

For **multi-node** deployment, add `--net=host` and mount `hccn_tool`:

```bash
-v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/tools/hccn_tool:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/tools/hccn_tool
```

### Build Ascend image from source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm-ascend.git
cd vllm-ascend
docker build -t vllm-ascend:dev -f Dockerfile .
# For A3: use Dockerfile.a3
```

### Ascend API test

From the host (or inside container):

```bash
curl -s http://localhost:8000/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"model":"Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct","messages":[{"role":"user","content":"Who are you?"}],"max_tokens":128}'
```

## Common server flags

- `--model <MODEL_ID>` — model to load (HF ID or local path)
- `--port <PORT>` — server port (default 8000 for OpenAI-compatible server)
- `--log-level` — adjust verbosity
- You may pass additional `engine_args` after the image tag; see vLLM docs for tuning options.

## Testing the API

After the container starts, make a quick test request against the OpenAI-compatible endpoint:

```bash
curl -s http://localhost:8000/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"model":"Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct","messages":[{"role":"user","content":"Who are you?"}],"max_tokens":128}'
```

## Security and operational notes

- Keep `HF_TOKEN` secret; prefer passing it via environment variables or a secret manager.
- For production, run behind a reverse proxy (Nginx) with TLS and authentication.
- Mount only necessary host paths into the container.

## Troubleshooting

**NVIDIA:**
- Container can't access GPUs: ensure `nvidia-container-toolkit` is installed and restart Docker.

**Ascend:**
- Add `--privileged` to `docker run`; on Ascend with multiple containers, this is required for NPU access.
- Container can't access NPUs: ensure Ascend driver and CANN are installed on host; run `npu-smi info` to verify.
- Wrong image: use `dmidecode -t system | grep Product` to pick the correct image tag (A2, A3, or 310p).
- `libatb.so not found`: ensure NNAL is installed; use the official pre-built vllm-ascend image which includes it.
- Model download slow: set `VLLM_USE_MODELSCOPE=true` and install `modelscope` for China mirror.

**Common:**
- Model download failures: check `HF_TOKEN` and network; mount cache directory to persist downloads.
- Memory / OOM errors: try a smaller model or add more GPU memory; check `--shm-size`.
- If the container fails with NCCL library path issues (rare): set `VLLM_NCCL_SO_PATH` per upstream guidance.
- Permission issues of current user with Docker: ensure your user is in the `docker` group or suggest user to add current user to `docker` group manually following:
```bash
# 1. Create docker group if it doesn't exist (may already exist on some systems)
sudo groupadd docker

# 2. Add current user to the docker group (replace $USER with your username if needed)
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER

# 3. Apply the new group membership (you may need to log out and log back in for this to take effect)
newgrp docker

# 4. Verify that the user is in the docker group (output should include docker)
groups $USER
```
- Docker pull failed due to a network timeout connecting to Docker Hub: check the network connection and try again. If the issue persists, suggest and show the user how to use a mirror for Docker Hub.
- Error during downloading models from Hugging Face: check if the `HF_TOKEN` is passed to the container and is valid. Check if `HTTP_PROXY` and `HTTPS_PROXY` are passed to the container if the host is behind a proxy. Also, verify that the model ID is correct and that the model is public or accessible with the provided token.

## References

- vLLM repository (docker/Dockerfile): https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/tree/main/docker
- NVIDIA Container Toolkit: https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/install-guide.html
- Up-to-date deployment instructions and troubleshooting: https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/deployment/docker/
- vllm-ascend plugin: https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm-ascend
- vllm-ascend Docker images: https://quay.io/repository/ascend/vllm-ascend
- vllm-ascend installation & quickstart: https://docs.vllm.ai/projects/ascend/en/latest/quick_start.html
